# CS4760HW3
Semaphores and Operating System Simulator

In this project you will be creating an empty shell of an OS simulator and doing some very basic tasks in preparation
for a more comprehensive simulation later. This will require the use of fork, exec, shared memory and semaphores.

# Operating System Simulator ./oss

This will be your main program and serve as the master process. You will start the operating system simulator (call
the executable oss) as one main process which will start by forking off a number of starting processes and will then
fork off new children as some terminate.

As we will be making a simulator, we will be maintaining our own system clock. oss will start by first allocating
shared memory for a clock that only it will increment. The child processes should be able to view this memory but
will not increment it. This shared memory clock should be two integers, with one integer to hold seconds, the other
integer to hold nanoseconds. So if one integer has 5 and the other has 10000 then that would mean that the clock is
showing 5 seconds and 10000 nanoseconds. This clock should initially be set to 0.

In addition to this shared memory clock, there should be an additional area of shared memory allocated to allow the
child processes to send information to the master. Let us call this area shmMsg.

With the clock at zero, oss should fork off the appropriate number of child processes to start. Then it should enter
into a loop. Every iteration of that loop, it should increment the clock (simulating time passing in our system).
While in this loop, oss should be checking shmMsg. If it has been sent a message from the child, it should output
the contents of that message (which should be a set of two integers, a value in our clock) to a file. If there is a
message in shmMsg, that means that the child process is terminating, so oss should then fork off another child and
clear shmMsg. This process should continue until 2 seconds have passed in the simulated system time, 100 processes
in total have been generated or the executable has been running for the maximum time allotted (in real seconds).
At that point the master should terminate all children and then itself, while making sure to clean up any shared
memory and semaphores it is using.

Note that I did not specify how much oss should increment the clock on each iteration. This will depend on your
implementation. Tune it so that your system has some turnover.

The log file should at least have the following information, but can contain additional information:
Master: Child pid is terminating at my time xx.yy because it reached mm.nn in slave
Master: Child pid is terminating at my time xx.yy because it reached mm.nn in slave
Master: Child pid is terminating at my time xx.yy because it reached mm.nn in slave
...
with xx.yy being the time in the simulated system clock when oss received the message and mm.nn is the time that
the user process put in shmMsg.

# User Processes ./user

The child processes of the oss are the user processes. These should be a separate executable from master, run with
exec from the fork of oss.

This process should start by reading the simulated time system clock generated by oss. It should then generate a
random duration number from 1 to 1000000 and add this to the time it got from the clock. This represents the time
when this process should terminate itself. It should then loop continually over a critical section of code. This critical section should be enforced through the use of semaphores.

Each iteration over the critical section, the user processes should examine the oss managed clock and see if its until
that duration has passed. If while in the critical section it sees that its duration is up and there is nothing already in
shmMsg, it should send a message to oss that it is going to terminate. Once it has put a message in shmMsg it should
terminate itself, making sure to cede the critical section to any other user processes before doing so. If shmMsg is not
empty the user process should cede the critical section and then on the next time it enters the critical section try
and terminate at that time.

This checking of duration vs oss clock and putting a message in the shmMsg for master should only occur in the
critical section. If a user process gets inside the critical section and sees that its duration has not passed, it should
cede the critical section to someone else and attempt to get back in the critical section.
Note: Make sure that you have signal handing to terminate all processes, if needed. In case of abnormal termination,
make sure to remove any resources that are used.

Your main executable should use command line arguments. You must implement at least the following command
line arguments using getopt:
-h
-s x
-l filename
-t z
where x is the maximum number of slave processes spawned (default 5) and filename is the log file used. The
parameter z is the time in seconds when the master will terminate itself and all children (default 20).

# Implementation
The code for oss and user processes should be compiled separately and the executables be called oss and user.
The program should be executed by
./oss

# Hints
I HIGHLY SUGGEST YOU DO THIS PROJECT INCREMENTALLY. Test out the command line options, then
spawn the slave processes but just have them all terminate. Then encode the shared memory and termination after
a specified time. Then insert semaphores and enforcement of critical region. Then check to see if the child processes
are able to communicate with master. Lastly try and get master to spawn new children as others terminate.

# What to handin
Handin an electronic copy of all the sources, README, Makefile(s), and results. Create your programs in a directory
called username.3 where username is your username on hoare. Once you are done with development and debugging,
remove the executables and object files, and issue the following commands:

% cd
% ~hauschild/bin/handin cs4760 3

Do not forget Makefile (with suffix or pattern rules), RCS (or some other version control like Git), and README for
the assignment. If you do not use version control, you will lose 10 points. I want to see the log of how the file was
modified. Omission of a Makefile will result in a loss of another 10 points, while README will cost you 5 points.
Make sure that there is no shared memory left after your process finishes (normal or interrupted termination). Also,
use relative path to execute the child.
